                                  Kerrick Long

Web Developer


    2708 Geyer Ave.
    St. Louis, MO 63104

   me@kerricklong.com (573) 200-6339

Summary

   I'm passionate about solving problems, both through products and
   process improvement. I love to ship software that uplifts people and
   brings them together, and I love doing it with a team working at peak
   efficiency. I believe we choose what we build and how we build it, so
   let's make the right choices and make a difference in this world.

Employment History

  Lead Front-End Developer

    Second Street

   December 2013 - Present
     * Lead the development and maintenance of a suite of front-end web
       applications
     * Identify and eliminate roadblocks, process bottlenecks, and other
       inefficiencies
     * Mentor and train junior developers, improving their skills and
       productivity

  Front-end web developer

    Second Street

   May 2013 - December 2013
     * Participate in the design and development of white-label software
       using agile practices
     * Employ industry best practices in user experience design and
       front-end web development
     * Develop across browsers and UI paradigms to make our clients
       productive and profitable

  Web Developer

    Self-Employed

   June 2008 - May 2013
     * Design, code, and deploy websites for clients including small
       businesses and individuals
     * Develop open source and proprietary software to fulfill internal
       and client needs
     * Work with various APIs and existing systems

  Student developer, web design & support

    Southeast Missouri State University

   September 2009 - September 2011
     * Triage internal support requests for the web team
     * Design and maintain virtual campus tour interface
     * Develop and help design comprehensive website redesign

Projects

  Library: Talker.js

   Developed a JavaScript library to provide a Promise-based interface to
   postMessage for communication across frames.

  Application: Second Street Platform

   Led the front-end team developing a multi-faceted software platform
   that allows our customers to create contests and promotions, analyze
   and segment their user data, and send messages based on interest and
   interaction.

    Duties

     * Built and led the front-end development team for five Ember.js
       applications, the largest of which is over 24 KLOC of JavaScript
       across over 100 routes.
     * Created dynamic single-site apps for consumers to enter promotions
       and engage with content, including sweepstakes, quizzes, and
       surveys
     * Developed a dynamic form builder with drag-and-drop configuration.
     * Helped develop a website & email template designer that supports
       dynamic template elements, live previews, and more.
     * Created a JavaScript library for embedding content within partners'
       sites, synchronizing the URL, third-party storage, frame size, and
       more.

  Application: Second Street CLI

   Created an internal command-line tool to eliminate developer meta work
   by integrating Trello and GitHub.

  Website: Southeast Missouri State University

   Pioneered the comprehensive 2011 redesign of Southeast Missouri State
   University's website while working for Web Design & Support.

    Duties

     * Developed semantic HTML and well-documented, modular, and reusable
       CSS for RedDot CMS, enabling impaired users to use screen readers
       and improving the entire site's SEO and improving the
       maintainability of the codebase.
     * Used progressive enhancement techniques that perform well across
       browsers, keeping compatibility with older browsers while enabling
       an enhanced experience for users with modern browsers.
     * Created rich media elements to improve the appeal and function of
       department sites, including dynamic calendar and RSS widgets, image
       and video sliders, and social integration using the Twitter,
       Facebook, and YouTube APIs.
     * Improved navigation by using a study of visitor flow, featuring the
       most often-visited links prominently on the home page, and placing
       the most often-visited site sections in site-wide persistent
       navigation.
     * Facilitated department control over the content of their sections
       of the University website by optimizing CSS to handle unpredictable
       HTML.
